Reviewer's Comments:

The paper presented here is very well written and offers important new insights. It studies the dependence of the halo mass for first star formation on a Lyman-Werner background in a large simulation, and goes beyond current literature work by the inclusion of self-shielding and studying the multiplicity of Pop III stars. I generally recommend if for publication after some concerns are addressed.

Major comments:
1) One of the main points of the paper is studying the multiplicity of Pop III stars in a halo. This multiplicity might be due to the fact that Pop III stars have collapsed to a BH after their lifetime and a second Pop III star could form in the same halo. This is very plausible. If several Pop III stars are found forming in the same halo at the same time, however, the employed star particle algorithm has a hard-coded length scale of 1pc in which only one star particle can be formed. I am wondering if this is an effect that is resolution dependent - do the same number of stars form if the resolution is increased and the maximum distance is decreased? Which is the motivation for the length scale of 1pc?

2) The authors select their haloes by the halo finding algorithm Rockstar. They should add a bit of information on that code (is it fof or subfind-like?). Also, one of their main points is to compare their work to Machacek+01. Machacek+01, however, use a different halo definition (spherical around the halo centre going out to a radius of 200 times the mean density of the Universe). How do these different halo masses compare?
Further, it is not entirely clear why atomic cooling haloes are excluded in this analysis and if they are excluded throughout the whole paper. The exclusion of atomic cooling haloes artificially shifts the average halo mass to lower values.
In addition, the authors should state the fraction of haloes that have Pop III stars forming outside the halo.
The baryon fraction varies with redshift. Please give an estimate by how much this influences the halo masses used here.


Minor comments:
The authors should state at one point in the paper for which properties they use comoving or physical units.

Introduction:
The authors write that Pop III star formation is generally more massive. While a fraction of the community agrees with that, there is manifoldly cited work that finds low-mass Pop III progenitors, and the authors should not let that unmentioned, but also cite eg Stacy+16, Greif+11 and Clark+11.

The authors name a few processes for suppressing Pop III star formation. For completeness, they should also mention eg X-ray heating (citing eg Jeon+14). 

The authors cite the well-known study from Machacek+01. However, a more recent result would be from the study by Visbal+14, giving a lower mass limit. Since the authors find a lower mass limit than Machacek+01, it would be interesting to see how this compares to the lower mass limit from the more modern paper.

Methods:
In Wise+12, three different environment regions are picked. Please provide more description on the rare peak simulation here and discuss why this one is appropriate in this context.

The initialization at z=130 is very late. I am aware that it is impossible to repeat this simulation starting at an earlier redshift, but would advise for future work.

Why do the authors pick a non-zero metalicity threshold for Pop III star formation? How many Pop III stars form between Z=0 and Z=5e-6 Z_sol?

What is the physical motivation for a density threshold of 1.e6/cc? Is there convergence? 

Similarly, why do the authors chose a H2 fraction of 1.e-3? (Is is a mass fraction or a number fraction?) How many Pop III stars do not form because of this threshold?

Do the authors set fixed mass limits to the IMF and if yes, which are they? If not, which is the highest / lowest mass they find in their random sampling? And which fraction of the Pop III stars in the simulation end up as type II SNe / BHs / PISN?

One effect than can weaken the shielding is shifting out of the Lyman-Werner resonance lines (see Hartwig+15). I am wondering how much this would affect the study presented here. 

In Figure 1, please mention in the caption or at the top / bottom of the left axis that a shielding factor of 1 corresponds to no shielding and a shielding factor of 0 corresponds to high shielding, as these nomenclatures are not immediately understandable for the reader.

The analytic calculation of the shielding factor is a nice property of the paper. However, assuming a constant H2 fraction seems not appropriate. Please repeat this exercise for a more realistic halo profile, which could be found in the simulations or in the literature, eg by Machacek+01 themselves.

Results:
Figure 2 is quite empty, it would be useful to include the halo mass function of the earliest Pop III formation redshift with its analytic prediction. In addition, the authors could provide a line or an arrow to show their halo mass resolution limit.

Figure 3 looks very nice. It would be helpful if an additional line that only provides the global LWBG (in units of J21) was included.

The authors find no correlation between the host halo mass and the Lyman-Werner background intensity. However, they only look at the LWBG flux at the time of Pop III formation - is there maybe a correlation between the time integrated LW flux?

Figures 7 and 8 show very nice histograms as an additional panel on the right. I suggest to include a histogram on the spread of the creation time in Figure 9 similar to Figures 7 and 8.

Discussion:
The authors give three reasons for the halo mass spread. Can they estimate which of the three processes (BH formation, dynamical heating and temporal LWBG fluctuations) is responsible for the spread by which fraction?

One of the most extensive studies on over 1000 minihaloes was performed by Hirano+15, who also include a Lyman-Werner background. Their work should be put in comparison as well.

In Figure 10, the result from Yoshida+03 is hard to see, maybe use a different symbol / colour.

Since the authors study star formation in minihaloes, it would be appropriate to also mention Kitayama+04 and Schauer+15 for the Lyman-Werner escape fractions from minihaloes.

The authors mention a few times that streaming velocities are another pathway of suppressing Pop III formation (also in the introduction). While they cite some older work, they however fail to compare to more recent work eg by Hirano+18 or Schauer+19 (who do perform a systematic study not only based on a few, single haloes).
